7-------------------
IA0012-1 Intro/ScopeProject IA0012: 0 Scope
5Notes on Cascabel Theory and Acatl by Professor Y. Axum

Classified reports from the Duchy of Harkor indicate that the Great Temple of Acatl is a transit point to a temple on fabled Earth.  A directive from the Imperial Court of Internal Affairs has ordered the University of Argos to explore the scientific feasibility of the transit link between Acatl and the potential societal and cultural implications.

To address this directive the university has assembled an interdisciplinary team led by Professors Axum of the Astrophysics department and Garmon of the Archaeology department.  All information about this project is considered confidential and classified.
-------------------
IA0012-2 BackgroundProject IA0012: 1 Background
3Imperial Intelligence Agency reports that the Duchy of Harkor has obtained information about the activation of a matter transmit corridor on the planet of Acatl.  The specific claim is that the Great Temple of Acatl serves as a transit point to the lost planet of Earth.  During a combined archaeological and scientific study of the site, under the auspices of Director Ambril (Director of the Hall of Antiquities on Esatus), a group of strangers were detained on the temple grounds claiming to have come from Earth.  No clear account could be obtained of how they travelled to Acatl.  The reports further state that Harkor sent several agents to Earth through the temple transit.

There is less certain information of a larger incursion from Earth believed to have occurred several months later.  At this time the scientific study had ended, and there was no government presence in the area of the temple.  Details are lacking, but it appears that the force from Earth attacked the nearby village of Tikul with heavy weaponry, destroyed the communications tower and subjugated the local population.  They forced them to dig for minerals and provide rubber latex. ->*-*-*<- After occupying the area for a few months, they suddenly abandoned it.
-------------------
IA0012-3 CascabelProject IA0012: 2 Cascabel Theory
5The Cascabel theory of superdimensional matter transmission postulates that certain places can provide instantaneous travel between two cosmically distant locations (see Cascabel Theory, Brink et al., AP 77X-0027).  Indeed, the recent scientific study of the Great Temple, by D. Heddin of the University of Zaores, focused on determining the validity of the Cascabel theory, and establishing a potential location for "Earth."  

The mathematics of the Cascabel theory suggests that the location of one end of the matter transmission conduit can be determined by an accurate survey of the other end.  Legends about the Great Temple have long claimed that it was a portal to the fabled planet of Earth.  Some archaeologists postulate that Earth was likely another planet in Quad VII that also contained an ancient temple, which a detailed survey of the Great Temple would reveal (the survey has to be very precise).  If Heddin completed such a survey he has not revealed his results publicly.

According to the theory, which is not yet proven, the position ->*-*-*<- of certain exotic materials within the corresponding transit end points effect the function of the transmission.  Certain configurations will yield a connection that is "in phase" resulting in matter transmission.  Other configurations will result in a connection that is "out of phase:"  some of these configurations are safe, others can lead to dangerous instabilities.  Those dangerous instabilities could result in the destruction of entire solar systems.  However, this is only speculation, as the theory has not been proven.
-------------------
IA0012-4 Earth 1Project IA0012: 3 Earth
9Earth has been the subject of many theories, investigations, and fictional fantasies.  Disentangling any historical information about Earth from the legends surrounding it is effectively impossible, so this section will be mostly confined to recent reports.  All such reports are highly classified, and information is gathered second hand and must be treated with a high degree of skepticism.

The location of Earth is believed to have been fixed by Harkor intelligence agents but has not been revealed yet.  The reports only say that it lies far outside the borders of the Empire.

The Earth is inhabited by humans.  It is a diverse planet with a temperate climate.  It has a relatively dense population.  It is not as technologically advanced as most Imperial planets.  It has a degree of industrialization, but space travel has not yet been achieved and appears to be some ways off.  Wireless communications are new and in a very primitive state.  The planet is divided into many separate nation-states which are often at war with each other or preparing for war. ->*-*-*<- The forms of government are also reported to be diverse, with Republics, Dictatorships, and Monarchies present in myriad forms.  Large portions of the planet are considered to be "colonized" and subjected to the rule of another state.

Earth has no knowledge of the Empire, and appears to have limited knowledge of the universe as a whole.  There doesn't seem to be any generalized myths or legends concerning Acatl or the Great Temple; Harkor agents only admitting that they have similar stories of lost civilizations, but no details are provided.

Harkor agents specifically report that Jethric is not found on Earth.
-------------------
IA0012-5 Earth 2Project IA0012: 4 Earth Myths
5This section contains information on myths and legends about the Earth that may have influenced the Duchy of Harkor's interest in the lost planet.  The focus should be on those myths which may explain Harkor's actions, and not to present irrelevant theories.

Most myths present the Earth as an idyllic place with many natural resources.  The Duchy of Harkor has made no attempt to hide the fact that it seeks more sources of Jethric and have even been promoting study into developing alternatives.  However, their agents have reported that Jethric is not present on the Earth.  If this was the primary reason for searching for the Earth, then Harkor may soon lose interest.

Some myths have conflated the Earth with the Lost Imperial Storehouse.  These confusions between two different lost planets first occurred during the Intermediary Period, and research has shown that legends about the lost planet of Earth were established long before the Lost Imperial Storehouse.  However, Harkor has shown a keen interest in retrieving First Empire artifacts, and while no reports from ->*-*-*<- their agents have been discovered that suggest they are doing so, it is possible that they are investigating whether or not the Earth could be the missing Imperial Storehouse.
-------------------
IA0012-6 Great RiftProject IA0012: 5 Great Rift
3This section is for establishing any relationship between the Earth and the Great Rift and Rift-traders.

According to reports received so far, there is no way to ascertain where Earth is relative to the Great Rift.  There is no indication that the Earth is in contact with rift-traders, or engages in trading through the rift.
-------------------
IA0012-7 HypothesesProject IA0012: 7 Preliminary conclusions and working hypotheses
7It is possible that Harkor has invented these reports as distractions or part of a counter intelligence operation.  However, there is some confirmation from independent interviews with residents on Acatl.  It could still be an elaborate scheme, sending agents to pose as Earthmen, and even attacking Tikul.  But the latter, at least, seems very unlikely, given the potential political ramifications.  It would also be an unusual amount of effort for a simple ruse.

We suggest that further study be made, and are proposing to send a team of investigators to Acatl.  We further request that Director Ambril and Scientist Heddin be interviewed.

If the Great Temple of Acatl is a transit point to the Earth, and it operates according to the Cascabel Theory, then there is potential for catastrophic disaster.  However, the Cascabel theory has yet to be proven.

Earth itself seems to present no threat to the Empire: the technology ->*-*-*<- is inferior, and the inhabitants too divided.  At the same time it appears to offer little in value.  However, there is potential for answering many important questions in the realms of History, Archaeology and Anthropology.