6-------------------FIRST MARAN EMPIRE
THE FIRST MARAN EMPIRE
5The First Maran Empire was founded between 3,000 and 2,700 years ago.  The traditional date is 2,838 years ago, which is considered the founding date of the Empire and year zero.  The origins of the First Empire are now obscure.  Legend states that "Remara of Mara" established the Empire after completing the conquest of all the inhabited systems.  Remara also created the form of government, which was very centralized.  The Empire was divided into provinces that were ruled by governors appointed by the Emperor.

The First Empire was marked by development in trade, engineering, and education.  Dominion under a single ruler also led to an extended period of peace, although there were occasional local rebellions.

A civil war erupted in 780 AF, it didn't cause much widespread destruction, but did destabilize Imperial power.  Gradually the control of the Emperors began to weaken, and the provinces started to operate independently, and then to war with each other.  By 950 AF the Empire had almost completely collapsed.  In 1022 AF Mara was conquered by a large force from Esatus and the last of the old Emperors was killed, marking the official end of the First Maran Empire.-------------------INTERMEDIATE PERIOD
THE INTERMEDIATE PERIOD
5With the collapse of the First Maran Empire in 1022, the inhabited worlds entered a long period of decline, marked by nearly constant conflict between the former Imperial provinces.  Old borders and distinctions quickly eroded, as the more powerful provinces conquered and incorporated the weaker ones, then deteriorated and split apart.

Around 1350 Matius established the Kingdom of Aesin, which managed to briefly unite many of the old core systems of the Empire.  However, it was split into several regions after Matius's death, and had completely collapsed by 1500.  

The Enterran reconquest was completed by 1710, but it controlled an even smaller area than the Aesin Kingdom at its height, and didn't include the traditional core worlds of the Empire.  The borders of the Kingdom of Enterran soon retreated, although its ancestral seat remained a relatively strong military, political and economic force among the inhabited worlds.  A degree of peace was achieved during this period, which led to the so called Enterran Renaissance, with renewed interest in commerce, education, science, and the arts.
-------------------SECOND MARAN EMPIRE
THE SECOND MARAN EMPIRE
1The Second Maran Empire was founded more than 600 years ago, in 2196, by Emperor Lutian I.  Lutian succeeded in rebuilding the Empire through a combination of skillful alliances and military conquest.  The formation of the Lutian Federation, enabled Lutian I to surround and then isolate those territories which didn't acquiesce to joining the Empire.  With sufficient economic pressure many regions joined the Empire without a fight.  Others, however, had to be subdued by the combined forces of the Federation military.
-------------------LOST WARRIOR CIVILIZATION
THE LOST WARRIOR CIVILIZATION
5The Lost Warrior Civilization is known almost entirely through archaeological evidence.  It is not clear when they were first established, but they were present on a few hundred worlds in Quadrant VII by 2500 BF (5300 before present) at the latest.  

There are many artifacts that show warriors in ceremonial clothing and many representations of eagles.  They are believed to have constructed the Great Temple of Acatl, and minor temples on other planets.  Little of their technology has remained, however, and it is not fully understood how they travelled through interstellar space.

Around 4,500 years ago (approximately 1700 BF), the race mysteriously, and suddenly, disappears from the archaeological record.  Historians have speculated about the cause of their disappearance as everything from a space plague, to military conquest, to a great migration.  But in reality there is little evidence to explain the sudden disappearance of this civilization. 
-------------------EAGLE CULTS
EAGLE CULTS
3Eagle cults, also known as Eagle worshippers, describes the peoples that inhabited the Acatl region of Q.VII when they were incorporated into the First Maran Empire.  They share a similar language, and have similar cultures, religions, and myths.  They appear to worship the Lost Warrior Civilization, and eagles are a common motif in all of their religious ceremonies.  

When discovered by the Legions of the First Maran Empire, they did not seem to have any spacefaring technology, and how they came to be spread across the many planets in the region is a matter of some debate.  Scholars believe that the ancestors of the Eagle worshippers were either the slaves of the Warrior Civilization, or they represent another ethnic group altogether that moved into the area after the Warrior Civilization had disappeared, before regressing technologically.  The Eagle worshippers themselves maintain that they are descendants of the Lost Warrior Civilization.
-------------------THE GREAT RIFT
THE GREAT RIFT
1The Great Rift is a large nebula or expanse of interstellar gas bordering quadrants VII and VIII.  Starships cannot navigate through the rift, and almost nothing is known about what lies inside or beyond.  It is believed that the area is rich in Jethric.  The planet of Jaffa is the closest to the rift, and the Republic of Ponto maintains a trading colony there.
-------------------HIGHER EDUCATION
INSTITUTES OF HIGHER LEARNING
1There are many Universities, Research and Technical Institutes, and Academies throughout the Empire.  Almost every inhabited world has at least one, often time many more.  Some institutions, however, receive special recognition from the Emperor, and these are designated STUDIA.