4
-------------------EMPEROR
CURRENT EMPEROR
1The current Emperor, and King of Mara, is OCAN I.  He ascended the throne on 2822.21.7 after the death of his father LUTIAN III.  His coronation took place on 2823.18.0-------------------IMPERIAL GOVERNMENT
THE IMPERIAL GOVERNMENT
3The Imperial government consists of the Imperial Court and the Chamber of Deputies.  Each inhabited planet selects deputies to serve within the chamber.  They meet once every year or two years to discuss and pass legislation.  Most votes within the Chamber are taken by regional blocks, although in some cases each individual deputy is polled.  The Imperial Court enforces the laws, has the right to call special sessions of the Chamber, and issues Imperial edicts.  The Council of State consists of the representatives of nobles of the Imperial core worlds.  It serves as an advisory body to the Emperor, and has limited powers to pass laws when the Chamber is out of session.

Solonia, within the Kingdom of Mara, is the capital of the Empire.  Emperor Ulen II moved the capital from the planet Mara to Solonia to insulate it from local politics.
-------------------INTERIOR POLITICAL DIVISIONS
INTERIOR POLITICAL DIVISIONS
5
The Empire is divided into eight quadrants, forming a rough sphere centered on the Mara system.  Mara was the traditional capital of the Empire, and, while it no longer retains that distinction, it is still referred to as "the center."  Quadrants are simply astronomical divisions, and have no bearing on the political boundaries of the states that make up the Empire.

The states that make up the Empire take on several forms: Constellations, Margraves, Duchies, Archduchies, and Kingdoms.  Additionally some of these states may be referred to as "Principalities", and there are also the Free Planets, which have special status granted by the Emperor.  Free Planet governments are usually republican.  The states themselves are further divided internally in a manner determined by the rulers and governments of the respective states.

NB:  The ranking of a state does not necessarily equate to its relative power or political influence.  While a King outranks a Duke, who in turn out ranks a Count, a large powerful duchy may have more influence than a kingdom.
-------------------REARRAN ALLIANCE
THE REARRAN ALLIANCE
5
A recent development in the politics of the Empire, the Rearran Alliance consists of signatories to the Treaty of Orraes.  Some details of the treaty are secret, but generally speaking the alliance appears to be for economic and technological co-development with some cooperation between bureaucratic, and perhaps military, organizations.  The Alliance is lead by the large Duchy of Harkor, and is sometimes referred to as the "Harkor Confederation."

The following is a list of known signatories to the Treaty of Orraes, those marked with an (*) have agreed to reorganize their bureaucracies (and militaries) to streamline cooperation:  Kingdom of Orraes*, Archduchy of Laenine*, Free Planet of Inzaes, Margrave of Brant, Duchy of Sogema, Constellation of Reveen*.  Additionally the Republic of Monok is a partial signatory to the Treaty of Orraes.  Their commitment to the Alliance is not clear.

NB:  Despite the treaty being signed on Orraes, representatives of the alliance regularly meet on the planet of Rearra, within the Duchy of Harkor, hence the name of the alliance.
-------------------UNALIGNED PLANETS
UNALIGNED/UNASSIGNED PLANETS
3
Some inhabited planets do not belong to one of the interior political divisions of the Empire.  These planets are referred to as "unaligned," or "unassigned," and are to be administered by the Imperial Government.  Typically the Imperial Outer Worlds Coordination Committee is responsible for the administration of such planets, but other arrangements sometimes exist depending upon local circumstances.

Most unaligned planets have only recently been colonized by settlers acting independently of their respective home states, or the home state has failed to gain Imperial approval for the acquisition of the planet.  (NB: All unclaimed worlds are considered Imperial property.)  In some cases the planet's status is debated, and has remained so for many years or even centuries, often because no involved party wishes to press or relinquish a claim.  In such cases the Empire grants the planet a temporary status.  Several planets in Quadrant VII, inhabited by Eagle Cults, fall into this category.