5-------------------Conflict On Veorin Intensifies!
Conflict On Veorin Intensifies!
Fighting on Veorin has intensified, reports of Orraean ground forces having landed on the surface.  Calls for Imperial intervention growing louder.
veorin2.jpgZaar - 
1
Veorin, a planet in the Archduchy of Zaar (Q.IV), has been the focus of a border conflict between Zaar and Orraes, for nearly two years.  Recently the fighting has intensified, and there are reports of Orraean ground forces having landed on the surface.  The calls for Imperial intervention are growing louder, and it is rare that a planet of Veorin's status should be at the center of a conflict lasting this long.  There are indications that the Empire is finally going to act, especially as the intervention with the conflict in Quadrant II between Bizaan and Esus is winding down.  The only major dissent to the calls for intervention is from Duchy of Harkor, an ally of the Kingdom of Orraes, whose media continues to understate the severity and scale of the fighting.
-------------------Pirates seize Passenger Liner in Quadrant.VI!
Pirates capture the Empress Star!
GNA confirms reports that pirates captured a passenger liner near Gelema.

Qurexe -
3
In a stunning escalation of piracy, we can now confirm that the passenger liner, Empress Star, was seized by pirates while en route to Gelema, in the Constellation of Qurexe (Q.VI).  It is rumored that the ship's owners, the Blue Star Line, has agreed to pay a sizeable ransom for the release of the passengers and the return of the ship.  While piracy has been on the rise on the fringes of Quadrant VI, such actions were usually limited to capture of slow cargo vessels on local routes.  This is the first time, in recent memory, that an express liner has been seized.  

The Imperial high command is considering dispatching a fleet to bolster Qurexe's anti-piracy activities, and the Federation Army has already sent an advisory detachment.  The pirates have long been believed to be operating from a base on Quesor, an unassigned planet in the region, but that has not been confirmed.
-------------------OWC relinquishes control over another planet.
OWC relinquishes control over Biveed.
The OWC has backed down in another confrontation with the Duchy of Harkor's Colonial Administration, ceding control of a planet in Quad V.

Celexe -
1The Imperial Outer Worlds Coordination Committee, also known as the Outer Worlds Committee, or OWC, has backed down in another confrontation with the Duchy of Harkor's Colonial Administration.  This time the unassigned planet was Biveed in Quadrant V.  Experts have confirmed to GNA that Harkor's claim to this planet is based on obvious forgeries, but it is unclear as to why the OWC continues not to press these issues more vigorously.   
-------------------Rift traders warn about potential scarcity in Jethric supplies.
Scarcity in Jethric
Traders in Jaffa report that the number of jethric trading ships arriving there has greatly dropped off in the past six months.

Ponto -
1
Traders in Jaffa (Q.VIII), Ponto's trading post near the Great Rift, report that the number of rift trading ships arriving there has greatly dropped off in the past six months.  These mysterious rift ships are an often overlooked part of the Jethric trade.  It is estimated that they supply between a quarter and third of the total amount of Jethric consumed in the Empire.  It has long been argued that these ships, manned by an unknown and unrevealed faction, should not be relied upon for such a critical fuel source.
-------------------Miners strike after negotiations breakdown on Anorisla.
Miners strike on Anorisla.
Workers at the important mines on Anorisla have gone on strike after negotiations with management fail.

Orveti -
1
Workers at the largest mining concern on Anorisla, in the Duchy of Orveti (Q.III), have gone on strike following failed negotiations between the worker's union and government representatives.  The workers claim that their safety concerns have gone unheeded, and that their pay is inadequate.  Our correspondent asked the management of the government owned mine for comment, but they have not responded.